101. Which federal political party is in power?
Green Party.
New Democratic Party.
Liberal Party. (correct answer)
Conservative Party.
102. Which of the following is NOT a feature of Canada’s system of government?
A federal state.
Parliamentary democracy.
Constitutional Monarchy.
Dictatorship. (correct answer)
103. Which of the following sentences best describes the War of 1812?
Napoleon's fleet was defeated by the Royal Navy in the war.
The USA became independent from the British Empire after the war.
The USA invaded Canada and was defeated, which ensured that Canada would remain independent of the United States. (correct answer)
Canada joined the United States after the war.
104. Which of the following statements about residential schools is NOT true?
The federal government placed many Aboriginal children in residential schools to educate and assimilate them into mainstream Canadian culture.
The schools were poorly funded and inflicted hardship on the students.
The schools were welcomed by the Aboriginal people. (correct answer)
Aboriginal language and cultural practices were mostly prohibited.
105. Which party becomes the Official Opposition?
The party with the second most MPs. (correct answer)
The party receiving the least votes.
Any independent candidate.
The party the Prime Minister selects.
106. Which party is the Official Opposition at the federal level?
The New Democratic Party.
The Liberal Party.
The Independent Party.
The Conservative Party. (correct answer)
107. Which port is the largest and busiest in Canada?
The Port of Halifax
The Port of Montreal
The Port of Vancouver (correct answer)
The Port of Victoria
108. Which province has its own time zone?
British Columbia
Newfoundland and Labrador (correct answer)
Nunavut
Nova Scotia
109. Which province in Canada is the smallest in land size?
Nova Scotia.
Prince Edward Island. (correct answer)
Yukon Territory.
Newfoundland and Labrador.
110. Which province is the main producer of pulp and paper and hydro-electricity?
Quebec (correct answer)
Ontario
British Columbia
Manitoba
111. Which province is the only officially bilingual province?
New Brunswick. (correct answer)
Quebec.
Ontario.
Prince Edward Island.
112. Which province was split into two at Confederation?
Lower Canada
Newfoundland
Upper Canada
The Province of Canada (correct answer)
113. Which province was the first to grant voting rights to women?
Quebec
Ontario
Nova Scotia
Manitoba (correct answer)
114. Which provincial flag features the fleur-de-lys?
Quebec (correct answer)
New Brunswick
Manitoba
Ontario
115. Which region covers more than one-third of Canada?
Central Canada.
Prairies.
Atlantic Canada.
Northern Territories. (correct answer)
116. Which region is known as the industrial and manufacturing heartland of Canada?
Atlantic provinces.
Prairie provinces.
Central Canada. (correct answer)
West Coast.
117. Which region of Canada is known for both its fertile agricultural land and valuable energy resources?
British Columbia.
Prairie provinces. (correct answer)
Ontario.
Manitoba.
118. Which three countries are signatories to NAFTA?
Canada, the United Kingdom and the United States.
Canada, the United States and Japan.
Canada, Mexico and the United States. (correct answer)
Canada, Denmark and Andorra.
119. Which was the last province to join Canada?
Newfoundland. (correct answer)
Alberta.
Saskatchewan.
British Columbia.
120. Who are the Aboriginal peoples of Canada?
The first European settlers to arrive in Canada
The descendents of the first Australian immigrants to Canada
The first people to live in Canada (correct answer)
The first settlers of Newfoundland
121. Who are the Acadians?
Aboriginal people of the arctic.
French-speaking Catholics living in Ontario.
The descendants of French colonists who began settling in what are now the Maritime provinces in 1604. (correct answer)
English speaking refugees who settled in Louisiana.
122. Who are the founding peoples of Canada?
Métis, French and British.
Aboriginal, Métis and British.
Inuit, Aboriginal and British.
Aboriginal, French and British. (correct answer)
123. Who are the Métis?
The distinct aboriginal people of Atlantic Canada.
A people of mixed Inuit/First Nations ancestry most of whom live on the Prairies.
First Nations people speaking the Michif dialect.
A distinct people of mixed Aboriginal and European ancestry. (correct answer)
124. Who are the Quebecers?
European settlers in the 1600s.
Descendants of the French colonists.
Descendants of the Anglophones.
People of Quebec. (correct answer)
125. Who do Canadians vote for in a federal election?
The best speaker running in the election.
A candidate they want to represent them in Parliament. (correct answer)
Someone to become the Premier.
All of the candidates in their electoral district.
126. Who do Members of Parliament represent?
All of the Canadians living in the north.
Only Canadians living in Central Canada.
Everyone who lives in his or her electoral district. (correct answer)
Canadians living in the province in which he/she was elected.
127. Who had played an important part in building the Canadian Pacific Railway (CPR)?
American railroad engineers.
Acadian railroad workers.
Chinese railroad workers. (correct answer)
African American slaves.
128. Who has the right to run as a candidate in federal elections?
Anyone.
A Canadian citizen who is 16 years old.
Any man who is at least 18 years old.
Any Canadian citizen who is at least 18 years old. (correct answer)
129. Who has the right to vote in federal elections?
A Canadian citizen, 18 years or older, and on voters' list. (correct answer)
A Canadian citizen, 18 years or older and must work for the federal government.
A landed immigrant, 18 years old and a memberof the Canadian Forces.
A Canadian citizen, over 25 years and a member of the Canadian Forces.
130. Who have major responsibilities on First Nations reserves?
Band chiefs and councillors. (correct answer)
Municipal governments.
Provincial and territorial governments.
Federal government.
131. Who is Canada’s Head of State?
Governor General of Canada.
Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II. (correct answer)
Prime Minister.
Lieutenant Governor.
132. Who is considered the father of Manitoba?
John A. Macdonald
Sam Steele
Alfred Boyd
Louis Riel (correct answer)
133. Who is General Sir Arthur Currie?
A military leader of the Métis in the 19th century.
A great frontier hero.
An explorer of western Canada.
Canada's greatest soldier in the First World War. (correct answer)
134. Who is the Head of Government?
The President
The Queen
The Governor General
The Prime Minister (correct answer)
135. Who is the leader of the Federal Official Opposition Party?
Thomas Mulcair
Andrew Scheer
Erin O'Toole (correct answer)
Elizabeth May
136. Who is the Queen’s representative in Canada?
Prime Minister of Canada.
Premier.
Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II.
Governor General of Canada. (correct answer)
137. Who led an armed uprising and seized Fort Garry?
John A. Macdonald
Louis Riel (correct answer)
Sam Steele
George-Étienne Cartier
138. Who led Quebec into Confederation?
Sir Louis-Hippolyte La Fontaine
Sir George-Étienne Cartier (correct answer)
Sir Wilfrid Laurier
Sir John A. Macdonald
139. Who was Sir Louis-Hippolyte La Fontaine?
A champion of democracy and Aboriginal rights.
A champion of democracy and French language rights and the first leader of a responsible government in the Canadas. (correct answer)
The first Head of State.
The first French speaking Prime Minister.
140. Who was Sir Sam Steele?
A great frontier hero, Mounted Policeman and soldier of the Queen. (correct answer)
A military leader of the Métis in the 19th century.
The first Prime Minister of Canada.
The Father of Manitoba.
141. Who was the first leader of a responsible government in the Canadas in 1849?
Sir John A. Macdonald.
Robert Baldwin.
Louis Riel.
Sir Louis-Hippolyte La Fontaine. (correct answer)
142. Who was the first Prime Minister of Canada?
Louis Riel.
Sir John A. Macdonald. (correct answer)
Lester B. Pearson.
Abraham Lincoln.
143. Who were the United Empire Loyalists?
Settlers who came to Canada from the United States during the American Revolution. (correct answer)
Aboriginal peoples.
Métis
Inuit.
144. Who were the Voyagers?
Montreal-based traders who travelled by canoe (correct answer)
Immigrants to Canada in the 18th Century
Explorers searching for the North-West Passage
Geographers who first charted the coastline of British Columbia
145. Why is the battle of Vimy Ridge important?
It was a key position of the German line in Northern Spain.
Canadian Corps secured its reputation for valour and bravery. (correct answer)
It was the "hinge" of the German line as it protected the newly constructed Hindenburg line.
Once Canadians fought at Vimy they knew they would be heading home.
146. Why is trade with other countries important to Canada?
It enhances our standard of living.
It makes it easier for us to travel to foreign countries.
It enhances our economy and raises our standard of living. (correct answer)
It brings in cheaper goods.
