40. What are the three parts of Parliament?

The Sovereign, Governor General and Prime Minister.
The House of Commons, the Legislative Assembly and the Senate.
The Queen, the Legislative Assembly and the Senate.
The Sovereign, the House of Commons and the Senate. (correct answer)

41. What are the two official languages of Canada?

English and Métis.
Inuktitut and French.
English and French. (correct answer)
English and Inuktitut.

42. What country is Canada’s largest trading partner?

Mexico.
United States of America. (correct answer)
China.
Japan.

43. What did the Canadian Pacific Railway symbolize?

Easy access to the West Coast.
What can be achieved by working together.
Unity. (correct answer)
Ribbons of steel.

44. What did the Fathers of Confederation do?

They worked together to establish a new country, the Dominion of Canada (correct answer)
They were explorers who formed an expedition to survey Northern Canada
They formed a republic state in Canada
They were a group of politicians that tried to unite Canada to the United States

45. What do you call a law before it is passed?

A New law.
A Proposed law.
A Bill. (correct answer)
A New proposal.

46. What do you call the Sovereign’s representative in the provinces?

Premier.
Member of the Legislative Assembly.
Lieutenant-Governor. (correct answer)
Senator.

47. What do you mark on a federal election ballot?

The candidate's name.
The number for the candidate.
An "X". (correct answer)
The voter's name.

48. What does Confederation mean?

The United States Confederate soldiers came to Canada.
Joining of communities to become a province.
Joining of suburbs to form a large city.
Joining of provinces to make a new country. (correct answer)

49. What does it mean to say Canada is a constitutional monarchy?

The Sovereign (Queen or King) is the law maker of Canada.
Canada's Head of State is a hereditary Sovereign (Queen or King) who reigns in accordance with the Constitution. (correct answer)
The Sovereign (Queen or King) represents Canadians in Parliament.
The Sovereign (Queen or King) approves bills before becoming law.

50. What does the “right to a secret ballot” mean?

No one should tell you where to vote
A secret vote used by politicians when they are voting on sensitive topics
No one can watch your vote and no one should look at how you voted (correct answer)
Your right to vote in secret on who to appoint to the Senate
