1. A Member of Parliament from Montreal announces that she will spend her weekend in her electoral district. This means she would be:
In her office on Parliament Hill.
Visiting the province of Quebec.
In the part of Montreal where she was elected. (correct answer)
Going on a vacation.
2. After a federal election, which party forms the new government?
The party with the most elected representatives is invited by the Governor General to become the party in power. (correct answer)
The Queen herself picks any party to run the government.
The Governor General proposes a law for elected officials to become the governing body.
The Premiers of each province pick a party to run the government
3. Approximately how many Canadians served in the First World War?
7000.
8 million.
About 60,000.
More than 600,000. (correct answer)
4. Canada has three territories and how many provinces?
13
10 (correct answer)
3
5
5. Fatima is a new immigrant in Canada. What law allows her to take a job at par with a man?
Equality of women and men (correct answer)
Equality of all races.
Equal pay for equal work.
Equal rights.
6. From where does the name “Canada” come from?
From the Inuit word meaning country.
From the French word meaning joining.
From the Métis word meaning rivers.
From "Kanata", the Huron-Iroquois word for village. (correct answer)
7. Give an example of how you can show responsibility by participating in your community.
Mind your own business.
Have a party.
Keep your property tidy.
Volunteer. (correct answer)
8. Give an example of where English and French have equal status in Canada.
In schools.
In the workplace.
In the Parliament of Canada. (correct answer)
At City Hall.
9. Give the first line of Canada’s national anthem?
O Canada! Our home and native land! (correct answer)
O Canada! Our province and native land!
O Canada! From far and wide, O Canada,
O Canada! We stand on guard for thee.
10. How are Members of Parliament chosen?
Appointed by the Prime Minister.
Elected by Canadian citizens. (correct answer)
Appointed by the Queen.
Elected by the Provincial Ministers.
11. How are Senators chosen?
By the Governor General of Canada.
By the Premiers of all provinces.
Appointed by the Queen.
Senators are appointed by the Governor General on the advice of the Prime Minister. (correct answer)
12. How does a bill become a law?
The Lieutenant Governor must approve the bill.
Approval by a majority in the House of Commons and Senate and finally the Governor General. (correct answer)
The Queen must sign the bill.
Approval by the Members of the Legislative Assembly.
13. How is a Cabinet Minister chosen?
By the Queen.
By the voters.
By other Cabinet Ministers.
By the Prime Minister (correct answer)
14. How is the government formed after a federal election?
The party with the most elected representatives becomes the party in power. The Queen chooses the Prime Minister from this party
Ordinarily, the party with the most elected representatives becomes the party in power. The leader of this party becomes the Prime Minister. (correct answer)
The Governor General picks a party and a Prime Minister to run the government.
Each province elects one representative to form the government. The Queen then chooses the Prime Minister.
15. How is the Prime Minister chosen?
The Queen appoints the Prime Minister.
The Governor General with the Senate appoint the Prime Minister.
The leader of the party with the most elected representatives becomes the Prime Minister. (correct answer)
The MPs vote on the Prime Minister.
16. In Canada, are you allowed to question the police about their service or conduct?
No, police service and conduct is not open to discussion with Canadians.
Yes, you can question their service but not their conduct.
Yes, you can question their conduct but not their service.
Yes, if you feel the need to. (correct answer)
17. In Canada’s justice system what does “presumption of innocence” mean?
Everyone is guilty until proven innocent
Guilt is decided by public opinion
Innocence is decided by public opinion
Everyone is innocent until proven guilty (correct answer)
18. In the 1960s, Quebec experienced an era of rapid change. What is this called?
The West Movement.
The Revolution.
The Quiet Revolution. (correct answer)
La Francophonie.
19. In what industry do most Canadians work?
Natural resources
Tourism.
Service. (correct answer)
Manufacturing.
20. In which region do more than half the people in Canada live?
Central Canada. (correct answer)
Prairies.
Atlantic Canada.
Northern Canada.
21. Name all the federal political parties in the House of Commons and their leaders
Conservative (O\'Toole), NDP (Singh), Liberal (Trudeau), Bloc Quebecois (Blanchet), Green Party (Kuttner)) (correct answer)
Conservative (O\'Toole), Green (May), Liberal (Trudeau), Bloc Quebecois (Duceppe)
NDP (Mulcair), Green (May), Liberal (Rae), Bloc Quebecois (Paillé)
Liberal (Ignatieff), Conservative (Ambrose), NDP (Turmel), Green (May)
22. Name six responsibilities of citizenship.
Getting a job, making money, raising a family, paying taxes, mowing your lawn, voting in provincial elections.
Voting in municipal elections only, joining a political party, getting a job, obeying the law, driving safely, picking up litter.
Caring for the environment, not littering, paying taxes, obeying the law, helping others, respecting others.
Obeying the law, taking responsibility for oneself and one's family, helping others in the community, voting in elections, serving on a jury, protecting and enjoying our heritage and environment. (correct answer)
23. Name the five regions of Canada
Midwest, North, South, East, Central
Maritimes, Ontario, Quebec, Prairies, and British Columbia
Atlantic, Central, Prairie, West Coast, and North (correct answer)
West, Central, East, Prairies, and Territories
24. Name three additional rights protected by the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms
Freedom of speech, Right to own land, and Right to a fair trial.
Mobility rights, Multiculturalism, and Aboriginal Peoples' rights. (correct answer)
Right to ski anywhere in Canada, Moving rights, and Right to public assembly.
Right to vote, Right to speak publicly, and Security rights.
25. Name two fundamental freedoms protected by the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms.
Freedom of conscience and religion, and Freedom of association. (correct answer)
Equality rights, and to care for Canada's heritage.
Basic freedoms, and obeying laws.
Aboriginal peoples' rights, and to volunteer.
26. Name two key documents that contain our rights and freedoms.
The Canadian Constitution and English common law.
Civil code of France and the Canadian Constitution.
Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms and Magna Carta (the Great Charter of Freedoms). (correct answer)
Laws passed by Parliament and English common law.
27. Name two responsibilities of the federal government.
National defence and firefighting.
National defence and foreign policy. (correct answer)
Citizenship and highways.
Recycling and education.
28. Name two responsibilities of the provincial and territorial government.
Citizenship and Foreign Policy
Health and Education (correct answer)
Defense and Currency
Criminal Law and Interprovincial Trade
29. On what date did Nunavut become a territory?
July 1st, 1867
April 1st, 1999 (correct answer)
June 24th, 1995
March 31st, 1949
30. One third of all Canadians live in which province?
Quebec.
Ontario. (correct answer)
Northwest Territories.
Manitoba.
31. The Canadian Coat of Arms and motto is “A Mari Usque Ad Mare.” This means:
From the ocean to the sea.
From sea to sea. (correct answer)
From the sea to the ends of the earth.
From the water to the earth.
32. What are some examples of taking responsibility for yourself and your family?
Buying a house and a TV.
Getting a job, taking care of one's family and working hard in keeping with one's abilities. (correct answer)
Doing laundry and keeping the house clean.
Study hard so you can earn enough money to take a vacation.
33. What are the Prairie provinces and their capital cities?
Alberta (Edmonton) and Saskatchewan (Regina).
Alberta (Edmonton), Saskatchewan (Regina) and Manitoba (Winnipeg). (correct answer)
Saskatchewan (Regina) and Manitoba (Winnipeg).
Saskatchewan (Regina), Manitoba (Winnipeg) and Ontario (Toronto).
34. What are the provinces of Central Canada and their capital cities?
Manitoba (Winnipeg) and Ontario (Toronto).
Quebec (Quebec City) and Prince Edward Island (Charlottetown).
Ontario (Toronto) and Quebec (Quebec City). (correct answer)
Saskatchewan (Regina) and Manitoba Winnipeg).
35. What are the provinces of the Atlantic region and their capital cities?
Nova Scotia (Halifax), New Brunswick (Fredericton), Prince Edward Island (Charlottetown) and Quebec (Quebec).
Newfoundland and Labrador (St. John's), Nova Scotia (Halifax), New Brunswick (Fredericton) and Prince Edward Island (Charlottetown). (correct answer)
Newfoundland and Labrador (St. John's), Nova Scotia (Halifax), New Brunswick (Fredericton) and Quebec (Quebec).
Nova Scotia (Halifax), New Brunswick (Fredericton), Quebec (Quebec City)and Ontario (Toronto).
36. What are the territories of Northern Canada and their capital cities?
Alaska (Juneau) and Yukon Territory ( Whitehorse).
Northwest Territories (Yellowknife) and Alaska (Juneau).
Northwest Territories (Yellowknife).
Yukon Territory (Whitehorse), Northwest Territories (Yellowknife), and Nunavut (Iqaluit). (correct answer)
37. What are the three levels of government in Canada?
Federal, Provincial and Territorial, Municipal (local). (correct answer)
Federal, Provincial and City.
Federal, Territorial and Provincial.
Federal, State and Local.
38. What are the three main groups of Aboriginal peoples?
First Nations, Métis and Inuit. (correct answer)
Acadians, Métis and Inuit.
United Empire Loyalists, Métis and Inuit.
Inuit, Métis and Acadians.
39. What are the three main types of industry in Canada?
Natural resources, tourism and service industries..
Tourism, services and manufacturing.
Natural resources, tourism and manufacturing.
Natural resources, manufacturing and services. (correct answer)
40. What are the three parts of Parliament?
The Sovereign, Governor General and Prime Minister.
The House of Commons, the Legislative Assembly and the Senate.
The Queen, the Legislative Assembly and the Senate.
The Sovereign, the House of Commons and the Senate. (correct answer)
41. What are the two official languages of Canada?
English and Métis.
Inuktitut and French.
English and French. (correct answer)
English and Inuktitut.
42. What country is Canada’s largest trading partner?
Mexico.
United States of America. (correct answer)
China.
Japan.
43. What did the Canadian Pacific Railway symbolize?
Easy access to the West Coast.
What can be achieved by working together.
Unity. (correct answer)
Ribbons of steel.
44. What did the Fathers of Confederation do?
They worked together to establish a new country, the Dominion of Canada (correct answer)
They were explorers who formed an expedition to survey Northern Canada
They formed a republic state in Canada
They were a group of politicians that tried to unite Canada to the United States
45. What do you call a law before it is passed?
A New law.
A Proposed law.
A Bill. (correct answer)
A New proposal.
46. What do you call the Sovereign’s representative in the provinces?
Premier.
Member of the Legislative Assembly.
Lieutenant-Governor. (correct answer)
Senator.
47. What do you mark on a federal election ballot?
The candidate's name.
The number for the candidate.
An "X". (correct answer)
The voter's name.
48. What does Confederation mean?
The United States Confederate soldiers came to Canada.
Joining of communities to become a province.
Joining of suburbs to form a large city.
Joining of provinces to make a new country. (correct answer)
49. What does it mean to say Canada is a constitutional monarchy?
The Sovereign (Queen or King) is the law maker of Canada.
Canada's Head of State is a hereditary Sovereign (Queen or King) who reigns in accordance with the Constitution. (correct answer)
The Sovereign (Queen or King) represents Canadians in Parliament.
The Sovereign (Queen or King) approves bills before becoming law.
50. What does the “right to a secret ballot” mean?
No one should tell you where to vote
A secret vote used by politicians when they are voting on sensitive topics
No one can watch your vote and no one should look at how you voted (correct answer)
Your right to vote in secret on who to appoint to the Senate
